% -*- TeX-master: "main"; fill-column: 72 -*-

\section{Validation of SBML documents}
\label{apdx-validation}

\subsection{Validation and consistency rules}
\label{validation-rules}

This section summarizes all the conditions that must (or in some cases,
at least \emph{should}) be true of an SBML Level~1 Version~1 model that
uses the \SEDMLPackage. We use the same conventions as are used in the
SBML Level~1 Version~1 Core specification document. In particular, there
are different degrees of rule strictness. Formally, the differences are
expressed in the statement of a rule: either a rule states that a
condition \emph{must} be true, or a rule states that it \emph{should} be
true. Rules of the former kind are strict SBML validation rules---a
model encoded in SBML must conform to all of them in order to be
considered valid. Rules of the latter kind are consistency rules. To
help highlight these differences, we use the following three symbols
next to the rule numbers:

\begin{description}

\item[\hspace*{6.5pt}\vSymbol\vsp] A \vSymbolName indicates a
\emph{requirement} for SBML conformance. If a model does not follow this
rule, it does not conform to the \SEDMLPackage specification. (Mnemonic
intention behind the choice of symbol: ``This must be checked.'')

\item[\hspace*{6.5pt}\cSymbol\csp] A \cSymbolName indicates a
\emph{recommendation} for model consistency. If a model does not follow
this rule, it is not considered strictly invalid as far as the
\SEDMLPackage specification is concerned; however, it indicates that the
model contains a physical or conceptual inconsistency. (Mnemonic
intention behind the choice of symbol: ``This is a cause for warning.'')

\item[\hspace*{6.5pt}\mSymbol\msp] A \mSymbolName indicates a strong
recommendation for good modeling practice. This rule is not strictly a
matter of SBML encoding, but the recommendation comes from logical
reasoning. As in the previous case, if a model does not follow this
rule, it is not strictly considered an invalid SBML encoding. (Mnemonic
intention behind the choice of symbol: ``You're a star if you heed
this.'')

\end{description}

The validation rules listed in the following subsections are all stated
or implied in the rest of this specification document. They are
enumerated here for convenience. Unless explicitly stated, all
validation rules concern objects and attributes specifically defined in
the \SEDMLPackage package.

For \notice convenience and brevity, we use the shorthand
``\token{sedml:\-x}'' to stand for an attribute or element name
\token{x} in the namespace for the \SEDMLPackage package, using the
namespace prefix \token{sedml}. In reality, the prefix string may be
different from the literal ``\token{sedml}'' used here (and indeed, it
can be any valid XML namespace prefix that the modeler or software
chooses). We use ``\token{sedml:\-x}'' because it is shorter than to
write a full explanation everywhere we refer to an attribute or element
in the \SEDMLPackage namespace.

\subsubsection*{General rules about this package}

\validRule{sedml-10101}{To conform to the \SEDMLPackage specification
for SBML Level~1 Version~1, an SBML document must declare
\uri{http://www.sbml.org/sbml/level1/version1/sedml/version1} as the
XMLNamespace to use for elements of this package. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1 \sec{xml-namespace}.)}

\validRule{sedml-10102}{Wherever they appear in an SBML document,
elements and attributes from the \SEDMLPackage must use the
\uri{http://www.sbml.org/sbml/level1/version1/sedml/version1} namespace,
declaring so either explicitly or implicitly. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1 \sec{xml-namespace}.)}

\subsubsection*{General rules about identifiers}

\validRule{sedml-10301}{(Extends validation rule \#10301 in the
\sbmlthreecore specification. TO DO list scope of ids) (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.1.7.)}

\validRule{sedml-10302}{The value of a \token{sedml:\-id} must conform
to the syntax of the \class{SBML} data type \primtype{SId} (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.1.7.)}

\TODO{ANY LIST OF ELEMENTS THAT HAVE ATTRIBUTES}

\subsubsection*{Rules for the extended \class{SBML} class}

\validRule{sedml-20101}{In all SBML documents using the \SEDMLPackage,
the \class{SBML} object must have the \token{sedml:\-required}
attribute. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~4.1.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20102}{The value of attribute \token{sedml:\-required}
on the \class{SBML} object must be of data type \primtype{boolean}.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~4.1.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20103}{The value of attribute \token{sedml:\-required}
on the \class{SBML} object must be set to \val{false}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1 \sec{xml-namespace}.)}

\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SedDocument} object}

\validRule{sedml-20201}{A \Document object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Document. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20202}{A \Document object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Document.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20203}{A \Document object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-level} and \token{sedml:\-version}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\Document object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{document-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20204}{A \Document object may contain one and only one
instance of each of the \ListOfDataDescriptions, \ListOfModels,
\ListOfSimulations, \ListOfAbstractTasks, \ListOfDataGenerators,
\ListOfOutputs and \ListOfStyles elements. No other elements from the
SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Document object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{document-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20205}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-level} on a
\Document must have a value of data type \token{integer}, and must be
non negative. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{document-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20206}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-version} on a
\Document must have a value of data type \token{integer}, and must be
non negative. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{document-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20207}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfDataDescriptions
container object may only contain \DataDescription objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofdatadescriptions-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20208}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfModels container
object may only contain \Model objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofmodels-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20209}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfSimulations container
object may only contain \Simulation objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsimulations-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20210}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfTasks container
object may only contain \AbstractTask objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listoftasks-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20211}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfDataGenerators
container object may only contain \DataGenerator objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofdatagenerators-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20212}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfOutputs container
object may only contain \Output objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofoutputs-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20213}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfStyles container
object may only contain \Style objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofstyles-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20214}{A \ListOfDataDescriptions object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfDataDescriptions object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofdatadescriptions-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20215}{A \ListOfModels object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfModels object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofmodels-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20216}{A \ListOfSimulations object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfSimulations object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofsimulations-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20217}{A \ListOfAbstractTasks object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfAbstractTasks object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listoftasks-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20218}{A \ListOfDataGenerators object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfDataGenerators object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofdatagenerators-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20219}{A \ListOfOutputs object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfOutputs object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofoutputs-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20220}{A \ListOfStyles object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfStyles object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofstyles-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Model} object}

\validRule{sedml-20301}{A \Model object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Model. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20302}{A \Model object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Model.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20303}{A \Model object must have the required attribute
\token{sedml:\-source}, and may have the optional attribute
\token{sedml:\-language}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Model object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{model-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20304}{A \Model object may contain one and only one
instance of the \ListOfChanges element. No other elements from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Model object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{model-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20305}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-source} on a \Model
must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{model-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20306}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-language} on a
\Model must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{model-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20307}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfChanges container
object may only contain \Change objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofchanges-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20308}{A \ListOfChanges object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfChanges object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofchanges-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Change} object}

\validRule{sedml-20401}{A \Change object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Change. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20402}{A \Change object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Change.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20403}{A \Change object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-target}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Change object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{change-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20404}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-target} on a
\Change must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{change-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AddXML} object}

\validRule{sedml-20501}{An \AddXML object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AddXML. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20502}{An \AddXML object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an \AddXML.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20503}{An \AddXML object must contain one and only one
instance of the XMLNode element. No other elements from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on an \AddXML object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{addxml-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ChangeAttribute} object}

\validRule{sedml-20601}{A \ChangeAttribute object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ChangeAttribute. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20602}{A \ChangeAttribute object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ChangeAttribute. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20603}{A \ChangeAttribute object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-newValue}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \ChangeAttribute object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{changeattribute-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20604}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-newValue} on a
\ChangeAttribute must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{changeattribute-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Variable} object}

\validRule{sedml-20701}{A \Variable object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Variable. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20702}{A \Variable object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Variable.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20703}{A \Variable object may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-symbol}, \token{sedml:\-target},
\token{sedml:\-taskReference} and \token{sedml:\-modelReference}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on
a \Variable object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{variable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20704}{A \Variable object may contain one and only one
instance of the \ListOfAppliedDimensions element. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Variable
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{variable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20705}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-symbol} on a
\Variable must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{variable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20706}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-target} on a
\Variable must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{variable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20707}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-taskReference} of a \Variable object must be the
identifier of an existing \Task object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{variable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20708}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-modelReference} of a \Variable object must be the
identifier of an existing \Model object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{variable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20709}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfAppliedDimensions
container object may only contain \AppliedDimension objects.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofapplieddimensions-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20710}{A \ListOfAppliedDimensions object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfAppliedDimensions object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofapplieddimensions-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Parameter} object}

\validRule{sedml-20801}{A \Parameter object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Parameter. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20802}{A \Parameter object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Parameter.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20803}{A \Parameter object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-value}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Parameter object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{parameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-20804}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-value} on a
\Parameter must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{parameter-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Simulation} object}

\validRule{sedml-20901}{A \Simulation object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Simulation. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20902}{A \Simulation object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Simulation.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-20903}{A \Simulation object must contain one and only
one instance of the Algorithm element. No other elements from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Simulation object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{simulation-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{UniformTimeCourse} object}

\validRule{sedml-21001}{An \UniformTimeCourse object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \UniformTimeCourse. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21002}{An \UniformTimeCourse object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\UniformTimeCourse. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21003}{An \UniformTimeCourse object must have the
required attributes \token{sedml:\-initialTime},
\token{sedml:\-outputStartTime} and \token{sedml:\-outputEndTime}, and
may have the optional attributes \token{sedml:\-numberOfPoints} and
\token{sedml:\-numberOfSteps}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on an \UniformTimeCourse object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformtimecourse-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21004}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-initialTime} on an
\UniformTimeCourse must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformtimecourse-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21005}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-outputStartTime} on
an \UniformTimeCourse must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformtimecourse-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21006}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-outputEndTime} on
an \UniformTimeCourse must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformtimecourse-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21007}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-numberOfPoints} on
an \UniformTimeCourse must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformtimecourse-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21008}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-numberOfSteps} on
an \UniformTimeCourse must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformtimecourse-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Algorithm} object}

\validRule{sedml-21101}{An \Algorithm object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\Algorithm. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21102}{An \Algorithm object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an \Algorithm.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21103}{An \Algorithm object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-kisaoID}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an \Algorithm object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{algorithm-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21104}{An \Algorithm object may contain one and only
one instance of the \ListOfAlgorithmParameters element. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an
\Algorithm object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{algorithm-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21105}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-kisaoID} on an
\Algorithm must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{algorithm-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21106}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfAlgorithmParameters
container object may only contain \AlgorithmParameter objects.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofalgorithmparameters-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21107}{A \ListOfAlgorithmParameters object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfAlgorithmParameters object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofalgorithmparameters-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AbstractTask} object}

\validRule{sedml-21201}{An \AbstractTask object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
an \AbstractTask. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21202}{An \AbstractTask object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AbstractTask. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Task} object}

\validRule{sedml-21301}{A \Task object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Task. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21302}{A \Task object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Task.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21303}{A \Task object may have the optional attributes
\token{sedml:\-modelReference} and \token{sedml:\-simulationReference}.
No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted
on a \Task object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{task-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21304}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-modelReference} of a \Task object must be the identifier
of an existing \Model object defined in the enclosing \Model object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{task-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21305}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-simulationReference} of a \Task object must be the
identifier of an existing \Simulation object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{task-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{DataGenerator} object}

\validRule{sedml-21401}{A \DataGenerator object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \DataGenerator. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21402}{A \DataGenerator object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\DataGenerator. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21403}{A \DataGenerator object may contain one and only
one instance of each of the \ListOfVariables, \ListOfParameters and
ASTNode elements. No other elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML
namespaces are permitted on a \DataGenerator object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{datagenerator-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21404}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfVariables container
object may only contain \Variable objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofvariables-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21405}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfParameters container
object may only contain \Parameter objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofparameters-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21406}{A \ListOfVariables object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfVariables object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofvariables-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21407}{A \ListOfParameters object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfParameters object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofparameters-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Output} object}

\validRule{sedml-21501}{An \Output object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\Output. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21502}{An \Output object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an \Output.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Plot} object}

\validRule{sedml-21601}{A \Plot object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Plot. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21602}{A \Plot object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Plot.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21603}{A \Plot object may have the optional attributes
\token{sedml:\-legend}, \token{sedml:\-height} and
\token{sedml:\-width}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML
namespaces are permitted on a \Plot object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{plot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21604}{A \Plot object may contain one and only one
instance of each of the Axis and Axis elements. No other elements from
the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Plot object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{plot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21605}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-legend} on a \Plot
must have a value of data type \token{boolean}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{plot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21606}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-height} on a \Plot
must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{plot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21607}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-width} on a \Plot
must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{plot-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Plot2D} object}

\validRule{sedml-21701}{A \PlotTwoD object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\PlotTwoD. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21702}{A \PlotTwoD object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \PlotTwoD.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21703}{A \PlotTwoD object may contain one and only one
instance of each of the \ListOfAbstractCurves and Axis elements. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\PlotTwoD object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{plottwod-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21704}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfCurves container
object may only contain \AbstractCurve objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofcurves-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21705}{A \ListOfAbstractCurves object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfAbstractCurves object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofcurves-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Plot3D} object}

\validRule{sedml-21801}{A \PlotThreeD object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\PlotThreeD. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21802}{A \PlotThreeD object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \PlotThreeD.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21803}{A \PlotThreeD object may contain one and only
one instance of each of the \ListOfSurfaces and Axis elements. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\PlotThreeD object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{plotthreed-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21804}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfSurfaces container
object may only contain \Surface objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsurfaces-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21805}{A \ListOfSurfaces object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfSurfaces object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsurfaces-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AbstractCurve} object}

\validRule{sedml-21901}{An \AbstractCurve object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
an \AbstractCurve. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21902}{An \AbstractCurve object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AbstractCurve. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-21903}{An \AbstractCurve object may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-logX}, \token{sedml:\-order},
\token{sedml:\-style}, \token{sedml:\-yAxis} and
\token{sedml:\-xDataReference}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an \AbstractCurve object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{abstractcurve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21904}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-logX} on an
\AbstractCurve must have a value of data type \token{boolean}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{abstractcurve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21905}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-order} on an
\AbstractCurve must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{abstractcurve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21906}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-style}
of an \AbstractCurve object must be the identifier of an existing \Style
object defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{abstractcurve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21907}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-yAxis} on an
\AbstractCurve must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{abstractcurve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-21908}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-xDataReference} of an \AbstractCurve object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataReference object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{abstractcurve-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Curve} object}

\validRule{sedml-22001}{A \Curve object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Curve. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22002}{A \Curve object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Curve.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22003}{A \Curve object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-yDataReference} and \token{sedml:\-type}, and
may have the optional attributes \token{sedml:\-logY},
\token{sedml:\-xErrorUpper}, \token{sedml:\-xErrorLower},
\token{sedml:\-yErrorUpper} and \token{sedml:\-yErrorLower}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\Curve object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{curve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22004}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-yDataReference} of a \Curve object must be the identifier
of an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{curve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22005}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-type}
of a \Curve object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{CurveType} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{CurveType} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one of
the following: \val{points}, \val{bar}, \val{barStacked},
\val{horizontalBar} or \val{horizontalBarStacked}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{curve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22006}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-logY} on a \Curve
must have a value of data type \token{boolean}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{curve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22007}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-xErrorUpper} of a \Curve object must be the identifier of
an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{curve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22008}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-xErrorLower} of a \Curve object must be the identifier of
an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{curve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22009}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-yErrorUpper} of a \Curve object must be the identifier of
an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{curve-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22010}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-yErrorLower} of a \Curve object must be the identifier of
an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{curve-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Surface} object}

\validRule{sedml-22101}{A \Surface object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Surface. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22102}{A \Surface object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Surface.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22103}{A \Surface object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-zDataReference}, and may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-xDataReference},
\token{sedml:\-yDataReference}, \token{sedml:\-type},
\token{sedml:\-style}, \token{sedml:\-logX}, \token{sedml:\-logY},
\token{sedml:\-logZ} and \token{sedml:\-order}. No other attributes from
the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Surface object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22104}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-zDataReference} of a \Surface object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22105}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-xDataReference} of a \Surface object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22106}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-yDataReference} of a \Surface object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22107}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-type}
of a \Surface object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{SurfaceType} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{SurfaceType} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one
of the following: \val{parametricCurve}, \val{surfaceMesh},
\val{surfaceContour}, \val{contour}, \val{heatMap}, \val{stackedCurves}
or \val{bar}. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22108}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-style}
of a \Surface object must be the identifier of an existing \Style object
defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22109}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-logX} on a \Surface
must have a value of data type \token{boolean}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22110}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-logY} on a \Surface
must have a value of data type \token{boolean}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22111}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-logZ} on a \Surface
must have a value of data type \token{boolean}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22112}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-order} on a
\Surface must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{surface-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{DataSet} object}

\validRule{sedml-22201}{A \DataSet object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\DataSet. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22202}{A \DataSet object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \DataSet.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22203}{A \DataSet object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-label} and \token{sedml:\-dataReference}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on
a \DataSet object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{dataset-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22204}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-label} on a
\DataSet must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{dataset-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22205}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-dataReference} of a \DataSet object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{dataset-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Report} object}

\validRule{sedml-22301}{A \Report object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Report. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22302}{A \Report object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Report.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22303}{A \Report object may contain one and only one
instance of the \ListOfDataSets element. No other elements from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Report object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{report-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22304}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfDataSets container
object may only contain \DataSet objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofdatasets-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22305}{A \ListOfDataSets object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfDataSets object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofdatasets-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AlgorithmParameter} object}

\validRule{sedml-22401}{An \AlgorithmParameter object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \AlgorithmParameter. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22402}{An \AlgorithmParameter object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AlgorithmParameter. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22403}{An \AlgorithmParameter object must have the
required attributes \token{sedml:\-kisaoID} and \token{sedml:\-value}.
No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted
on an \AlgorithmParameter object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification
for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{algorithmparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22404}{An \AlgorithmParameter object may contain one
and only one instance of the \ListOfAlgorithmParameters element. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on
an \AlgorithmParameter object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification
for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{algorithmparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22405}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-kisaoID} on an
\AlgorithmParameter must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{algorithmparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22406}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-value} on an
\AlgorithmParameter must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{algorithmparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22407}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfAlgorithmParameters
container object may only contain \AlgorithmParameter objects.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofalgorithmparameters-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22408}{A \ListOfAlgorithmParameters object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfAlgorithmParameters object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofalgorithmparameters-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Range} object}

\validRule{sedml-22501}{A \Range object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Range. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22502}{A \Range object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Range.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ChangeXML} object}

\validRule{sedml-22601}{A \ChangeXML object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ChangeXML. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22602}{A \ChangeXML object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \ChangeXML.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22603}{A \ChangeXML object may contain one and only one
instance of the XMLNode element. No other elements from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \ChangeXML object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{changexml-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{RemoveXML} object}

\validRule{sedml-22701}{A \RemoveXML object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\RemoveXML. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22702}{A \RemoveXML object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \RemoveXML.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SetValue} object}

\validRule{sedml-22801}{A \SetValue object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SetValue. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22802}{A \SetValue object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \SetValue.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22803}{A \SetValue object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-modelReference}, and may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-symbol}, \token{sedml:\-target} and
\token{sedml:\-range}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML
namespaces are permitted on a \SetValue object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{setvalue-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22804}{A \SetValue object may contain one and only one
instance of each of the ASTNode, \ListOfVariables and \ListOfParameters
elements. No other elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are
permitted on a \SetValue object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification
for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{setvalue-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22805}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-modelReference} of a \SetValue object must be the
identifier of an existing \Model object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{setvalue-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22806}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-symbol} on a
\SetValue must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{setvalue-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22807}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-target} on a
\SetValue must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{setvalue-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22808}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-range}
of a \SetValue object must be the identifier of an existing \Range
object defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{setvalue-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22809}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfVariables container
object may only contain \Variable objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofvariables-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22810}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfParameters container
object may only contain \Parameter objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofparameters-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22811}{A \ListOfVariables object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfVariables object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofvariables-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22812}{A \ListOfParameters object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfParameters object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofparameters-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{UniformRange} object}

\validRule{sedml-22901}{An \UniformRange object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
an \UniformRange. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22902}{An \UniformRange object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\UniformRange. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-22903}{An \UniformRange object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-start}, \token{sedml:\-end},
\token{sedml:\-numberOfPoints} and \token{sedml:\-type}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an
\UniformRange object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{uniformrange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22904}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-start} on an
\UniformRange must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformrange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22905}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-end} on an
\UniformRange must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformrange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22906}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-numberOfPoints} on
an \UniformRange must have a value of data type \token{integer}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformrange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-22907}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-type} on an
\UniformRange must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{uniformrange-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{VectorRange} object}

\validRule{sedml-23001}{A \VectorRange object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\VectorRange. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23002}{A \VectorRange object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \VectorRange.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23003}{A \VectorRange object may have the optional
attribute \token{sedml:\-value}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \VectorRange object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{vectorrange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23004}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-value}
of a \VectorRange object must be an vector of values of type
\token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{vectorrange-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{FunctionalRange} object}

\validRule{sedml-23101}{A \FunctionalRange object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \FunctionalRange. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23102}{A \FunctionalRange object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\FunctionalRange. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23103}{A \FunctionalRange object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-range}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \FunctionalRange object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{functionalrange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23104}{A \FunctionalRange object may contain one and
only one instance of each of the \ListOfVariables, \ListOfParameters and
ASTNode elements. No other elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML
namespaces are permitted on a \FunctionalRange object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{functionalrange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23105}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-range}
of a \FunctionalRange object must be the identifier of an existing
\Range object defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{functionalrange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23106}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfVariables container
object may only contain \Variable objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofvariables-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23107}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfParameters container
object may only contain \Parameter objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofparameters-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23108}{A \ListOfVariables object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfVariables object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofvariables-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23109}{A \ListOfParameters object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfParameters object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofparameters-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SubTask} object}

\validRule{sedml-23201}{A \SubTask object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SubTask. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23202}{A \SubTask object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \SubTask.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23203}{A \SubTask object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-order} and \token{sedml:\-task}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\SubTask object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{subtask-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23204}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-order} on a
\SubTask must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{subtask-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23205}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-task}
of a \SubTask object must be the identifier of an existing \AbstractTask
object defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{subtask-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{OneStep} object}

\validRule{sedml-23301}{An \OneStep object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\OneStep. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23302}{An \OneStep object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an \OneStep.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23303}{An \OneStep object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-step}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an \OneStep object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{onestep-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23304}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-step} on an
\OneStep must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{onestep-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SteadyState} object}

\validRule{sedml-23401}{A \SteadyState object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SteadyState. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23402}{A \SteadyState object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \SteadyState.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{RepeatedTask} object}

\validRule{sedml-23501}{A \RepeatedTask object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \RepeatedTask. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23502}{A \RepeatedTask object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\RepeatedTask. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23503}{A \RepeatedTask object may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-rangeId} and \token{sedml:\-resetModel}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on
a \RepeatedTask object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{repeatedtask-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23504}{A \RepeatedTask object may contain one and only
one instance of each of the \ListOfRanges, \ListOfSetValues and
\ListOfSubTasks elements. No other elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML
namespaces are permitted on a \RepeatedTask object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{repeatedtask-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23505}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-rangeId} of a \RepeatedTask object must be the identifier
of an existing \Range object defined in the enclosing \Model object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{repeatedtask-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23506}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-resetModel} on a
\RepeatedTask must have a value of data type \token{boolean}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{repeatedtask-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23507}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfRanges container
object may only contain \Range objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofranges-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23508}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfSetValues container
object may only contain \SetValue objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsetvalues-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23509}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfSubTasks container
object may only contain \SubTask objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsubtasks-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23510}{A \ListOfRanges object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfRanges object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofranges-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23511}{A \ListOfSetValues object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfSetValues object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsetvalues-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23512}{A \ListOfSubTasks object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfSubTasks object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsubtasks-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ComputeChange} object}

\validRule{sedml-23601}{A \ComputeChange object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ComputeChange. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23602}{A \ComputeChange object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ComputeChange. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23603}{A \ComputeChange object may contain one and only
one instance of each of the ASTNode, \ListOfVariables and
\ListOfParameters elements. No other elements from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \ComputeChange object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{computechange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23604}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfVariables container
object may only contain \Variable objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofvariables-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23605}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfParameters container
object may only contain \Parameter objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofparameters-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23606}{A \ListOfVariables object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfVariables object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofvariables-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23607}{A \ListOfParameters object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfParameters object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofparameters-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{DataDescription} object}

\validRule{sedml-23701}{A \DataDescription object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \DataDescription. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23702}{A \DataDescription object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\DataDescription. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23703}{A \DataDescription object may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-format} and \token{sedml:\-source}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\DataDescription object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{datadescription-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23704}{A \DataDescription object may contain one and
only one instance of each of the DimensionDescription and
\ListOfDataSources elements. No other elements from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \DataDescription object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{datadescription-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23705}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-format} on a
\DataDescription must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{datadescription-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23706}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-source} on a
\DataDescription must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{datadescription-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23707}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfDataSources container
object may only contain \DataSource objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofdatasources-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23708}{A \ListOfDataSources object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfDataSources object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofdatasources-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{DataSource} object}

\validRule{sedml-23801}{A \DataSource object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\DataSource. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23802}{A \DataSource object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \DataSource.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23803}{A \DataSource object may have the optional
attribute \token{sedml:\-indexSet}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \DataSource object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{datasource-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23804}{A \DataSource object may contain one and only
one instance of the \ListOfSlices element. No other elements from the
SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \DataSource object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{datasource-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23805}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-indexSet} of a \DataSource object must be the identifier
of an existing \ object defined in the enclosing \Model object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{datasource-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23806}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfSlices container
object may only contain \Slice objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofslices-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23807}{A \ListOfSlices object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfSlices object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofslices-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Slice} object}

\validRule{sedml-23901}{A \Slice object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Slice. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23902}{A \Slice object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Slice.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-23903}{A \Slice object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-reference} and \token{sedml:\-value}, and may
have the optional attributes \token{sedml:\-index},
\token{sedml:\-startIndex} and \token{sedml:\-endIndex}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\Slice object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{slice-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23904}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-reference} of a \Slice object must be the identifier of
an existing \ object defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{slice-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23905}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-value} on a \Slice
must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{slice-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23906}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-index}
of a \Slice object must be the identifier of an existing \ object
defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{slice-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23907}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-startIndex} on a
\Slice must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{slice-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-23908}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-endIndex} on a
\Slice must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{slice-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ParameterEstimationTask} object}

\validRule{sedml-24001}{A \ParameterEstimationTask object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ParameterEstimationTask. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24002}{A \ParameterEstimationTask object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ParameterEstimationTask. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24003}{A \ParameterEstimationTask object must contain
one and only one instance of each of the Algorithm, Objective,
\ListOfAdjustableParameters and \\ListOfFitExperiments elements. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\ParameterEstimationTask object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification
for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{parameterestimationtask-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24004}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfAdjustableParameters
container object may only contain \AdjustableParameter objects.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofadjustableparameters-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24005}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfFitExperiments
container object may only contain \FitExperiment objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listoffitexperiments-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24006}{A \ListOfAdjustableParameters object may have
the optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfAdjustableParameters object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofadjustableparameters-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24007}{A \ListOfFitExperiments object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfFitExperiments object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listoffitexperiments-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Objective} object}

\validRule{sedml-24101}{An \Objective object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\Objective. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24102}{An \Objective object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an \Objective.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{LeastSquareObjectiveFunction} object}

\validRule{sedml-24201}{A \LeastSquareObjectiveFunction object may have
the optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \LeastSquareObjectiveFunction. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24202}{A \LeastSquareObjectiveFunction object may have
the optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\LeastSquareObjectiveFunction. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AdjustableParameter} object}

\validRule{sedml-24301}{An \AdjustableParameter object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \AdjustableParameter. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24302}{An \AdjustableParameter object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\AdjustableParameter. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24303}{An \AdjustableParameter object may have the
optional attributes \token{sedml:\-initialValue},
\token{sedml:\-modelReference} and \token{sedml:\-target}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an
\AdjustableParameter object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{adjustableparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24304}{An \AdjustableParameter object must contain one
and only one instance of the Bounds element, and may contain one and
only one instance of the \ListOfExperimentRefs element. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an
\AdjustableParameter object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{adjustableparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24305}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-initialValue} on an
\AdjustableParameter must have a value of data type \token{double}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{adjustableparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24306}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-modelReference} of an \AdjustableParameter object must be
the identifier of an existing \Model object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{adjustableparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24307}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-target} on an
\AdjustableParameter must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{adjustableparameter-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24308}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfExperimentRefs
container object may only contain \ExperimentRef objects. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofexperimentrefs-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24309}{A \ListOfExperimentRefs object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfExperimentRefs object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listofexperimentrefs-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ExperimentRef} object}

\validRule{sedml-24401}{An \ExperimentRef object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
an \ExperimentRef. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24402}{An \ExperimentRef object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\ExperimentRef. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24403}{An \ExperimentRef object may have the optional
attribute \token{sedml:\-experimentId}. No other attributes from the
SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an \ExperimentRef object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{experimentref-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24404}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-experimentId} of an \ExperimentRef object must be the
identifier of an existing \FitExperiment object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{experimentref-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{FitExperiment} object}

\validRule{sedml-24501}{A \FitExperiment object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \FitExperiment. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24502}{A \FitExperiment object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\FitExperiment. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24503}{A \FitExperiment object may have the optional
attribute \token{sedml:\-type}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \FitExperiment object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{fitexperiment-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24504}{A \FitExperiment object may contain one and only
one instance of each of the Algorithm and \ListOfFitMappings elements.
No other elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted
on a \FitExperiment object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{fitexperiment-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24505}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-type}
of a \FitExperiment object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{ExperimentType} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{ExperimentType} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be
one of the following: \val{steadyState} or \val{timeCourse}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{fitexperiment-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24506}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfFitMappings container
object may only contain \FitMapping objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listoffitmappings-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24507}{A \ListOfFitMappings object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ListOfFitMappings object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{listoffitmappings-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{FitMapping} object}

\validRule{sedml-24601}{A \FitMapping object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\FitMapping. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24602}{A \FitMapping object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \FitMapping.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24603}{A \FitMapping object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-dataSource}, \token{sedml:\-target} and
\token{sedml:\-type}, and may have the optional attributes
\token{sedml:\-weight} and \token{sedml:\-pointWeight}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\FitMapping object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{fitmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24604}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-dataSource} of a \FitMapping object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataSource object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{fitmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24605}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-target} of a \FitMapping object must be the identifier of
an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{fitmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24606}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-type}
of a \FitMapping object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{MappingType} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{MappingType} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one
of the following: \val{time}, \val{experimentalCondition} or
\val{observable}. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{fitmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24607}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-weight} on a
\FitMapping must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{fitmapping-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24608}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-pointWeight} of a \FitMapping object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataSource object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{fitmapping-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Bounds} object}

\validRule{sedml-24701}{A \Bounds object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Bounds. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24702}{A \Bounds object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Bounds.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24703}{A \Bounds object may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-lowerBound}, \token{sedml:\-upperBound} and
\token{sedml:\-scale}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML
namespaces are permitted on a \Bounds object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{bounds-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24704}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-lowerBound} on a
\Bounds must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{bounds-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24705}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-upperBound} on a
\Bounds must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{bounds-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24706}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-scale}
of a \Bounds object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{ScaleType} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{ScaleType} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one of
the following: \val{lin}, \val{log} or \val{log10}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{bounds-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Figure} object}

\validRule{sedml-24801}{A \Figure object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Figure. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24802}{A \Figure object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Figure.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24803}{A \Figure object may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-numRows} and \token{sedml:\-numCols}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\Figure object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{figure-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24804}{A \Figure object may contain one and only one
instance of the \ListOfSubPlots element. No other elements from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Figure object. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{figure-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24805}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-numRows} on a
\Figure must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{figure-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24806}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-numCols} on a
\Figure must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{figure-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24807}{Apart from the general notes and annotations
subobjects permitted on all SBML objects, a \ListOfSubPlots container
object may only contain \SubPlot objects. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsubplots-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24808}{A \ListOfSubPlots object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \ListOfSubPlots object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{listofsubplots-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{SubPlot} object}

\validRule{sedml-24901}{A \SubPlot object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\SubPlot. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24902}{A \SubPlot object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \SubPlot.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-24903}{A \SubPlot object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-plot}, \token{sedml:\-row} and
\token{sedml:\-col}, and may have the optional attributes
\token{sedml:\-rowSpan} and \token{sedml:\-colSpan}. No other attributes
from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \SubPlot
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{subplot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24904}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-plot}
of a \SubPlot object must be the identifier of an existing \Plot object
defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{subplot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24905}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-row} on a \SubPlot
must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{subplot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24906}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-col} on a \SubPlot
must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{subplot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24907}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-rowSpan} on a
\SubPlot must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{subplot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-24908}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-colSpan} on a
\SubPlot must have a value of data type \token{integer}. (Reference:
SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{subplot-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Axis} object}

\validRule{sedml-25001}{An \Axis object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an
\Axis. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25002}{An \Axis object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on an \Axis.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25003}{An \Axis object must have the required attribute
\token{sedml:\-type}, and may have the optional attributes
\token{sedml:\-min}, \token{sedml:\-max}, \token{sedml:\-grid} and
\token{sedml:\-style}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML
namespaces are permitted on an \Axis object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{axis-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25004}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-type}
of an \Axis object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{AxisType} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{AxisType} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one of
the following: \val{linear} or \val{log10}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{axis-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25005}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-min} on an \Axis
must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{axis-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25006}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-max} on an \Axis
must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{axis-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25007}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-grid} on an \Axis
must have a value of data type \token{boolean}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{axis-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25008}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-style}
of an \Axis object must be the identifier of an existing \Style object
defined in the enclosing \Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{axis-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Style} object}

\validRule{sedml-25101}{A \Style object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Style. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25102}{A \Style object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Style.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25103}{A \Style object may have the optional attribute
\token{sedml:\-baseStyle}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Style object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{style-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25104}{A \Style object may contain one and only one
instance of each of the Line, Marker and Fill elements. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\Style object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{style-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25105}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-baseStyle} of a \Style object must be the identifier of
an existing \Style object defined in the enclosing \Model object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{style-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Line} object}

\validRule{sedml-25201}{A \Line object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Line. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25202}{A \Line object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Line.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25203}{A \Line object may have the optional attributes
\token{sedml:\-type}, \token{sedml:\-color} and
\token{sedml:\-thickness}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Line object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{line-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25204}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-type}
of a \Line object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{LineType} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{LineType} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one of
the following: \val{none}, \val{solid}, \val{dash}, \val{dot},
\val{dashDot} or \val{dashDotDot}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{line-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25205}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-color} on a \Line
must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{line-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25206}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-thickness} on a
\Line must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{line-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Marker} object}

\validRule{sedml-25301}{A \Marker object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Marker. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25302}{A \Marker object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Marker.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25303}{A \Marker object may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-size}, \token{sedml:\-type},
\token{sedml:\-fill}, \token{sedml:\-lineColor} and
\token{sedml:\-lineThickness}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Marker object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{marker-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25304}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-size} on a \Marker
must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{marker-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25305}{The value of the attribute \token{sedml:\-type}
of a \Marker object must conform to the syntax of SBML data type
\primtype{MarkerType} and may only take on the allowed values of
\primtype{MarkerType} defined in SBML; that is, the value must be one of
the following: \val{none}, \val{square}, \val{circle}, \val{diamond},
\val{xCross}, \val{plus}, \val{star}, \val{triangleUp},
\val{triangleDown}, \val{triangleLeft}, \val{triangleRight}, \val{hDash}
or \val{vDash}. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{marker-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25306}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-fill} on a \Marker
must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{marker-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25307}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-lineColor} on a
\Marker must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{marker-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25308}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-lineThickness} on a
\Marker must have a value of data type \token{double}. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{marker-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{Fill} object}

\validRule{sedml-25401}{A \Fill object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\Fill. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25402}{A \Fill object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \Fill.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25403}{A \Fill object must have the required attribute
\token{sedml:\-color}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3
SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \Fill object. (Reference: SBML
Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{fill-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25404}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-color} on a \Fill
must have a value of data type \token{string}. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1, \sec{fill-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{DependentVariable} object}

\validRule{sedml-25501}{A \DependentVariable object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \DependentVariable. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25502}{A \DependentVariable object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\DependentVariable. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25503}{A \DependentVariable object must have the
required attribute \token{sedml:\-term}, and may have the optional
attributes \token{sedml:\-targetTwo} and \token{sedml:\-symbolTwo}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on
a \DependentVariable object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for
SEDML, Version~1, \sec{dependentvariable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25504}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-term} on a
\DependentVariable must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{dependentvariable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25505}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-targetTwo} on a
\DependentVariable must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{dependentvariable-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25506}{The attribute \token{sedml:\-symbolTwo} on a
\DependentVariable must have a value of data type \token{string}.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{dependentvariable-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{AppliedDimension} object}

\validRule{sedml-25601}{An \AppliedDimension object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on an \AppliedDimension. (Reference: SBML
Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25602}{An \AppliedDimension object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\AppliedDimension. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25603}{An \AppliedDimension object may have the
optional attributes \token{sedml:\-target} and
\token{sedml:\-dimensionTarget}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on an \AppliedDimension object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{applieddimension-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25604}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-target} of an \AppliedDimension object must be the
identifier of an existing \ object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{applieddimension-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25605}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-dimensionTarget} of an \AppliedDimension object must be
the identifier of an existing \ object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{applieddimension-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{DataRange} object}

\validRule{sedml-25701}{A \DataRange object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\DataRange. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25702}{A \DataRange object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \DataRange.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25703}{A \DataRange object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-sourceRef}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \DataRange object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{datarange-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25704}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-sourceRef} of a \DataRange object must be the identifier
of an existing \ object defined in the enclosing \Model object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{datarange-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ShadedArea} object}

\validRule{sedml-25801}{A \ShadedArea object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No other
attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ShadedArea. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25802}{A \ShadedArea object may have the optional SBML
Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other elements
from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a \ShadedArea.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25803}{A \ShadedArea object must have the required
attributes \token{sedml:\-yDataReferenceFrom} and
\token{sedml:\-yDataReferenceTo}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \ShadedArea object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{shadedarea-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25804}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-yDataReferenceFrom} of a \ShadedArea object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{shadedarea-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25805}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-yDataReferenceTo} of a \ShadedArea object must be the
identifier of an existing \DataGenerator object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{shadedarea-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ParameterEstimationResultPlot} object}

\validRule{sedml-25901}{A \ParameterEstimationResultPlot object may have
the optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ParameterEstimationResultPlot.
(Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25902}{A \ParameterEstimationResultPlot object may have
the optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ParameterEstimationResultPlot. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-25903}{A \ParameterEstimationResultPlot object must
have the required attribute \token{sedml:\-taskRef}. No other attributes
from the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\ParameterEstimationResultPlot object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{parameterestimationresultplot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-25904}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-taskRef} of a \ParameterEstimationResultPlot object must
be the identifier of an existing \Task object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{parameterestimationresultplot-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{WaterfallPlot} object}

\validRule{sedml-26001}{A \WaterfallPlot object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and \token{sboTerm}. No
other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on
a \WaterfallPlot. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-26002}{A \WaterfallPlot object may have the optional
SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No other
elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\WaterfallPlot. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-26003}{A \WaterfallPlot object must have the required
attribute \token{sedml:\-taskRef}. No other attributes from the SBML
Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a \WaterfallPlot object.
(Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{waterfallplot-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-26004}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-taskRef} of a \WaterfallPlot object must be the
identifier of an existing \Task object defined in the enclosing \Model
object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{waterfallplot-class}.)}


\subsubsection*{Rules for \class{ParameterEstimationReport} object}

\validRule{sedml-26101}{A \ParameterEstimationReport object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core attributes \token{metaid} and
\token{sboTerm}. No other attributes from the SBML Level~3 Core
namespaces are permitted on a \ParameterEstimationReport. (Reference:
SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core, Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-26102}{A \ParameterEstimationReport object may have the
optional SBML Level~3 Core subobjects for notes and annotations. No
other elements from the SBML Level~3 Core namespaces are permitted on a
\ParameterEstimationReport. (Reference: SBML Level~3 Version~1 Core,
Section~3.2.)}

\validRule{sedml-26103}{A \ParameterEstimationReport object must have
the required attribute \token{sedml:\-taskRef}. No other attributes from
the SBML Level~3 SEDML namespaces are permitted on a
\ParameterEstimationReport object. (Reference: SBML Level~1
Specification for SEDML, Version~1,
\sec{parameterestimationreport-class}.)}

\validRule{sedml-26104}{The value of the attribute
\token{sedml:\-taskRef} of a \ParameterEstimationReport object must be
the identifier of an existing \Task object defined in the enclosing
\Model object. (Reference: SBML Level~1 Specification for SEDML,
Version~1, \sec{parameterestimationreport-class}.)}


